CHICHESTER CATHEDRAL. In the course of preparations which are now being made for paving the north transept of Chichester Cathedral, the workmen found about a foot below the surface large slab of stone covering grave. This grave was examined carefully, after the removal of the slab, and the following description was drawn by the Bev. Dr. Fowler, F.S.A., U.8.C8.E., Hon. Canon of Durham; The grave contained what appeared to be an entire skeleton, almost wholly concealed by a thick wrapping that looked like felt, made of short dry grass and pitch or tar. It flamed a little when put to a burning taper, and the smoke smelt distinctly of tar. The upper jaw shewed a full set of teeth in front, and the front of the skull was almost perfect. A portion of the wrapping fitted to the skull like a cap; another portion took the form of the pelvis. The tibia and fibula of the left leg were partly visible, and the patella, on being taken out, shewed needle-like projections, resulting from partial ossification of the upper tendon Portions of the black material above mentioned had small iron nails put through near their edges, but no distinct signs of wooden coffin were found. A quantity of mortar had fallen into the grave, and this mortar did not appear to be very ancient; much of the same adhered to the under aide of the square covering stone over the upper pact of the grave. The grave seemed to have been despoiled of its original cover in comparatively recent times, and then covered by the square slabs in somewhat rough and careless manner. The body, however, did not shew any of bavin- been disturbed. This examination made September in the presence of Prebendary F. O. Bennett, Hr. F. Crowe, and other witnesses.

Historic Disturbance by Century: not applicable
Original Burial Period(s): medieval
Original Burial by Century: 12th C | 13th C | 14th C
Location: North Transept
Specific Location: North Transept
Reason for Disturbance: Building, maintenance, or ground works
Treatment of Human Remains: Unknown status
Last Known Location of Human Remains: Unknown status
Grave Goods Found: n/a
Treatment of Grave Goods: n/a
Grave Furnishings Found: n/a
Treatment of Grave Furnishings: n/a